<notextile>  <!--
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. tags: python, servers
.. date: 2013/07/22 00:36:44
.. title: Cobbler
.. slug: cobbler
.. campaign_date: 2012-12
.. campaign_url: http://www.indiegogo.com/projects/cobbler-2-4-0-and-beyond
.. campaign_platform: indiegogo
.. campaign_status: successful
.. campaign_backers: 27
.. campaign_currency: US$
.. campaign_goal: 4000
.. campaign_raised: 5776
.. existing_code: yes
.. license: GPL
--></notextile>

A small-scale campaign to purchase hardware for a project cut loose by Red Hat.

<!-- TEASER_END -->

From the campaign, by James Cammarata, the new project lead:

bq. Created in 2007 by Michael DeHaan, Cobbler is a Linux installation server that allows for rapid setup of network installation environments. It glues together and automates many associated Linux tasks [...] Cobbler was originally a Fedora/Red Hat sponsored project, and is currently a key part of the Red Hat Satellite/Spacewalk project. Since March of 2012, the project leadership has changed and it is no longer receiving direct support from Red Hat in terms of money or development contributions.

h3. Rewards

* $25 - warm fuzzies with bronze label
* $50 - warm fuzzies with silver label
* $100 - warm fuzzies with gold label
* $500 - warm fuzzies with platium label

h3. Outcomes

Seems like "hardware was purchased":http://www.cobblerd.org/posts/2012/12/05/Fundraising_Complete_and_a_New_Website.html, so this can probably be counted as a success.

h3. Commentary

* "Shoes for the Cobbler’s kids":http://gregdekspeaks.wordpress.com/2012/11/20/shoes-for-the-cobblers-kids/ - blog post from a VP at Eucalyptus Systems, announcing they would match donations dollar for dollar during the Indiegogo campaign.
